\= Common UCUM Units

At first glance, the Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM) may seem
pretty complex. But for most of the units you use, the UCUM
representation is pretty recognizable. And, for many simple units the
UCUM syntax is actually the same string as what you currently use. To
help get you going, we’ve created this translation table that enumerates
the UCUM syntax for many common unit patterns currently used in
electronic reporting.

We composed an early version that focused on the basics. It was based on
content provided by \[<http://intermountainhealthcare.org/>
Intermountain Healthcare\], from a joint
\[<http://www.lhncbc.nlm.nih.gov/> National Library of Medicine\] and
\[<http://regenstrief.org/> Regenstrief Institute\] project analyzing
raw units from more than 23 laboratory sources, and from the HL7 table
of units. We excluded the units of measure for which we couldn’t find
clear definitions or patterns of usage, those we believed would only be
used in pharmacy dispensing, and units used for purely clinical
reporting (e.g. cigarette pack-years). We have included most of the pure
metric units from our sources, whether or not they apply directly to lab
testing because they will be generally useful—and are pretty
straightforward in UCUM.

The process used to generate this table is described in the Preface. We
have made several iterative improvements in new versions.

OID 1.3.6.1.4.1.12009.10.3.1

\== License and copyright

These files are bound by the \[<https://loinc.org/license> LOINC
License\]. Copyright © 1995-2021, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. All rights
reserved.

\== File metadata

  - Version 1.5
  - Published 2020-06-17
