# Education, Promotion and Outreach

Goals: of this project are to provide the public with information about
UCUM both design and theory as well as implementation practice.

Operation: This is done by the UCUM principals and affiliates publishing
activity and their presenting at invited talks. Currently there is no
discussion about how to do this, but just doing it.

Results: All secondary UCUM publications and presentations are being
referenced from this page.

## Publications and Presentations

This list if currently not complete but in the process of being built
up.

### \[<attachment:UCUM_GuntherSchadow_20090924.pdf> Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM)\] Presentation at an ONTOLOG Forum's UoM project panel Sept. 24, 2009

Abstract: The Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM) provides
human-friendly codes for all units of measures with precise semantics to
facilitate unambiguous and computable communication between computer
systems used in science, engineering and business world wide. UCUM is
inspired by earlier standards (ISO2955-1983, ANSI X3.50-1986) which it
expands and corrects (resolving various ambiguities). The semantics of
units is based on the intuition applied by most physicists when
computing with quantities and units (but chemists and medical people may
have to enhance their intuition first). It represents the meaning of
equivalence, commensurability, conversion, base and derived units,
including special units which require arbitrary conversion functions
(e.g., logarithm). UCUMâ€™s formal semantics is defined algebraically,
which leads to a very compact representation and efficient (constant
time) reasoning. However, it is quite different from symbolic knowledge
representation methods that many ontologistsare familiar with. While
symbolic models in UML are useful for discussing the design of the UCUM
implementation, they do not replace the elegance and efficiency of the
algebraic definition. This supports the conclusion that units of measure
are essentially quantitative phenomena that require a focus on
quantitative methods for their definition. UCUM does not, however,
attempt to define base units in any formal way but uses those as
primitives and refers to appropriate standards bodies (ISO, BIPM) for
their definitions. UCUM has been adopted by many standards organization
world wide in and outside of the medical domain. While the actual
maintenance of the core code system is minimal, defining organization
and governance are becoming more important. The key challenge in content
is to deal with procedure defined (arbitrary) units that are common in
biomedical sciences.
